The Dark Souls franchise is a punishing series of dungeon crawler RPGs, and its latest entry is no exception. Luckily, we've got a number of guides and tips to help you on your quest to defeat the Lords of Cinder. Whether you're a newcomer or a seasoned veteran, check out the guides below.

However, if you want to go into Dark Souls III fresh, we reccomend that you don't scroll down this page. Besides the first two guides, the rest contain potential spoilers for later parts of the game. Otherwise, for more on Dark Souls III, check out our recent news stories and features in the list below.

Which Dark Souls III Class is Right for You?

We go through each of the game's 10 different classes, explaining their strengths, skills, and play styles. If you're not sure what class suits you, then this is the guide for you. -- [Which Dark Souls III Class is Right for You?]

9 Tips for Dark Souls III Beginners

After you've chosen a class, there's still a dangerous journey awaiting you. We give you the essential tips needed to survive. For a condensed take on what you need to know, watch the video above. Otherwise, check out our comprehensive guide for the full details. -- [Dark Souls 3: 10 Essential Tips For Newcomers]

Coolest Armor Sets and Where to Find Them

Dark Souls III is filled with an assortment of awesome-looking armor. Below you can click through a small handful of the coolest sets in the game. You can also check out the video above to see brief shots of each armor set. But for a more comprehensive look at each, check out our gallery showcasing the coolest armor sets and how you can find them. -- [Dark Souls 3: Coolest Armor Sets]

Every Boss Weapon (So Far) and Where to Find Them

If Dark Souls III's numerous armor sets weren't enough, the game also includes an arsenal of over-the-top boss weapons you can wield. Below you can look at a small handful at what the game has to offer. You can also check out the video above to see the weapons in action. But for a more comprehensive guide, check out our gallery highlighting all the boss weapons, their stats, and how to find them. -- [Dark Souls 3: Every Boss Weapon (So Far)]

How to Become a Dragon

Similar to the beast transformation from The Old Hunters expansion of Bloodborne, Dark Souls III lets you turn into a dragon. But the way to do it requires a specific set of steps. Luckily, we've got you covered. Watch the video above to learn how to become a dragon.
