
The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth's Afterbirth DLC is coming to PS4 on 10th May.

The PC, Mac and Linux versions of The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth received the substantial add-on around last Halloween.

As detailed on the PlayStation Blog, Afterbirth adds the following new features:

A new final area and final boss for the main game.

The new Greed Mode.

Daily Runs to compete for high scores and best times.

1000+ new room designs.

A new playable character, Lilith, mother of demons.

Eight new bosses.

Four new alternate chapters with specific enemy types, visual themes, and surprises.

25 new enemies.

120 new items (bringing the total past 525).

A massively updated weapon combo system.

New alternate soundtrack.

10 totally new and awesome challenges.

Tons of new secret transformations.

Loads of new Trophies.

One of the most substantial new features in Afterbirth is Greed Mode, a wave-based survival arena mode with a twist. In Greed Mode players face increasingly difficult waves of enemies, but are given a chance to stop each wave - and receive less goodies - by standing on a "stop button". The more waves you tackle without hitting the button, the greater the reward. There's even better bonuses awarded for not taking damage.  

"Greed Mode will feel like a totally new experience that will not only yield tons of rewards for completing it with each character, but also features a very unique ending that should have you coming back," said Tyrone Rodriguez, the developer behind this PS4 port at Nicalis.

Another major new addition included in Afterbirth is Daily Runs. These make it so everyone gets the exact same dungeon (as the main game is procedurally-generated), with the same power-ups in the same locations. They also force players to all use the same character, regardless of whether you've unlocked them in the main game. Daily Runs will have their own unique leaderboards, so you can compare your run with friends. The only downside to these is that they won't unlock any progress-based rewards like new characters and items for the main game.

There will also be new alternate levels, meaning there's a chance a stage will be on fire or contain harder variations of enemies. These random stages will be more challenging, but also yield greater rewards.
