The first story in Sara Majka’s first book begins, “Maybe 10 or 11 years ago, when I was in the middle of a divorce from a man I still loved, I took the train into the city.” There the narrator visits an art exhibit — the story is called “Reverón’s Dolls,” after the Venezuelan artist — and stays in an apartment owned by an artist friend, filled with light and canvases. Unjustly, I assumed right away that I knew exactly what kind of book this would be: a book about arty people with complicated personal lives, who use the word “lover” and contemplate wintry landscapes from lonely trains.

There are arty people and wintry landscapes in “Cities I’ve Never Lived In.” The narrator above, who is common to many of the 14 stories, does use the word “lover,” and reflects on relationships that seem exceedingly complicated. But ­Majka brings the reader to startling places. The stories feature an array of discomfiting situations and hardscrabble New England lives. All of the stories are sad. A father leaves his daughter with a neighbor and rents an apartment in another town; a mother meets up with the ex-husband who killed their daughter while driving drunk. A little girl is abducted from a church day care and ­never seen again. Many of them are spooky. A young man leaves a mental hospital and finds that his island home has disappeared from the map. There are doppelgängers throughout the stories — in a bookstore and on the street and in a painting hidden in an attic. Watching an old museum security tape, the narrator catches a glimpse of herself as a child.

Majka is dexterous at bringing a physical clarity to the sites of emotional muddle; the boy in the mental hospital had “cut his wrists with his father’s coping saw, and lay on the ground watching the sawdust turn red until someone opened the door.” She excels at writing ­neglected, forlorn people and places. A foyer in a ­dingy apartment features an end table piled with old mail, mail that is “parchmenty and bowed in the middle.” The mother of the dead girl is one of a class of women “who have no femininity in them, but also nothing hard, it was just that life had brought them to having no extra gestures.” (Alice Munro is name-checked by the narrator, and her influence is perceptible throughout, although no one can achieve her particular brand of crispness.)

In the titular story, Majka’s main narrator conceives a plan to travel to soup kitchens around the country, talking to the poor. In one city she sees an exhibit about homeless people; she is moved by their stories but tells her mother on the phone that “it was too compassionate” to be effective. Real artists, she explains, take from people “for their own ends.” This is actually a useful annotation to ­Majka’s work. “Cities I’ve Never Lived In” is not a compassionate book, exactly, despite all the sad things in it. From certain angles, it’s a kind of New England gothic, where the lost children and dead women and doppelgängers serve to add atmosphere and meaning to the narrator’s past peregrinations, her dalliances and uncertainties. It turns out in the end that this is in fact a book about an arty person with a complicated personal life. But it’s a lovely one, written in a moving and uncanny register.



CITIES I’VE NEVER LIVED IN



Stories

By Sara Majka

160 pp. A Public Space/Graywolf Press. Paper, $16.

Lydia Kiesling is a staff writer for The Millions.

A version of this review appears in print on March 6, 2016, on page BR16 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Minding the Gaps.  Today's Paper|Subscribe


