It’s been a tumultuous week with my middle school aged daughters. I had every desire to knock Day 3 out of the park, but it’s 11pm and my laptop just died. I’m going to have to wing this from my iPad Mini. Here goes:

Beyond the traditional form of the novel, what are your favorite alternative forms (graphic novels, audiobooks, webcomics, etc)? Do you have any favorite works within these alternate forms? How do you think the changing format affects the reading experience?

My favorite form of reading is the audiobook. At one point I believed that they didn’t count as reading, but one day it clicked for me. The most powerful reading experiences I’ve had have come through audiobooks.

I don’t in any way disparage print books. I still buy and read plenty. Not every book interests me in audio either. Still, the audiobook brings more of me to the plate. I’m not sure how else to describe it.

The highlight of my blogging career also came as a result of audiobooks. I was named the Audiobook Blogger of the Year in 2015. I traveled to NYC to attend the Audie Awards and it was the night of my life. Audiobook people are some of my favorite people in the whole world and I got to celebrate with them. Life is good!

Our secondary topic, beyond the blog could focus on the ways you engage in talking about books outside of your blog. Do you participate in book clubs, take classes, meticulously maintain your goodreads profile? Let the world know!

I belonf to a small, cozy book club. We call ourselves the Tattered Boomarks and I love them dearly. They even listen to my stories about Simon Vance (my favorite audibook narrator – who has kissed me on the cheek!) and Neil Gaimon, who has held the door for me in New York and has retweeted and tweeted me a couple of times. Ahahahaha!

I am not as active on Twitter as I used to be. My feed has become more political and less bookish. Maybe it will improve after the election. In the meantime, I’ve discovered and fallen in love with Litsy. My name is LitHousewife there. Stop by and say hi.

Okay. I’m beat, but I’ll be glad I posted in the morning. I hope to stop by more blogs tomorrow. It is another day after all.?

Like this:

Like Loading...
