THE ROMANOVS1613-1918By Simon Sebag MontefioreIllustrated. 744 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $35.

The story of the Romanov dynasty began in 1613 with Michael Romanov, chosen as Russia’s czar in the Time of Troubles, and ended in 1918 with Alexei Romanov, shot alongside his parents and sisters in the basement of a house in the Urals. During the three turbulent centuries that separated these two “fragile, innocent and ailing” boys, the dynasty produced 20 monarchs and several regents, including two rulers of genius — Peter and Catherine, the “Greats.” The czars wielded absolute power and led lives that were truly extraordinary, larger than other lives, consecrated by the mystical mission, the sacred compact between the ruler and Russia — the compact whose roots went deep into the medieval land of peasants and rituals, of myth and religion, of Byzantine icons and golden eagles, yet which survived, virtually unchanged, into the 20th century, until swept away by the ­revolution.

In his mammoth 744-page opus, “The Romanovs,” Simon Sebag Montefiore, the eminent biographer of Joseph Stalin and Grigory Potemkin, covers the entire dynasty, from its rise to its apogee to its fall — an enterprise that has been accomplished only twice before, for reasons that become apparent just pages into the volume: It takes true historical daring to tackle such an immense subject.

The Romanovs inhabited a world of turmoil and excess, “a world where obscure strangers suddenly claim to be dead monarchs reborn, brides are poisoned, fathers torture their sons to death, sons kill fathers, wives murder husbands, . . . barbers and peasants ascend to supremacy,” and more and more. Endless visions of horror, splendor and absurdity — chopped-off heads soaked in vodka and courtiers traveling with their own portable gardens, children roasted and eaten in pogroms and wedding palaces carved out of ice, courtiers made to dress as chickens and sit clucking for hours and carriages pulled by bears — crowd one another so closely that the sheer concentration of history can become overwhelming. So dense is the material, in fact, that a single page bears the accounts of Czar Alexei’s courtship and marriage, a conspiracy involving accusations of sorcery, the birth of Peter the Great, the Cossack uprising of Stenka Razin complete with Razin’s gruesome execution, and a governmental reshuffle thrown into a footnote; and such pages are far from rare. (The footnotes, incidentally, contain some of the liveliest details, so readers are well advised not to skip them.)




The backbone of the narrative, the theme that underlies the wealth of information, is the nature of autocracy, with its daily power struggles, succession troubles, assassination attempts, plots and rebellions. Montefiore describes his work as “a study of character and the distorting effect of absolute power on personality,” “a family story of love, marriage, adultery and children” made “extraordinary because power both sweetens and contaminates the traditional familial chemistry.” Other themes run through the book as well — the treatment of ethnic and religious minorities and the role of chance in history among them — but the author’s investigation into the nature of power, “that mysterious, invisible alchemy of personality, fear and authority,” remains his foremost concern. His insights tend to be pithy and sharp. “The vanishing of royal children at the hands of power-hungry relatives has a fitting way of destroying the very power they seek,” he says of the murky death of Ivan the Terrible’s youngest son, Dmitri. “As an autocrat becomes older, the struggle for influence intensifies, which in turn makes the sovereign more suspicious and therefore more dangerous,” he comments on the reign of Anna, while the assassination of Paul elicits an aside: “A fortress is only as safe as the men who guard it.”

Coming from the notable historian of Stalin, such aphorisms carry much weight. One may wish for more of them, as well as more overall context, more grounding of the events in the general cultural and economic climate, which is touched upon infrequently and briefly. But, perhaps inevitably in a study so concentrated, Montefiore’s approach favors facts over analysis and atmosphere. The facts themselves, many of them results of original research, are fascinating enough to speak for themselves, although there are occasional dry patches. Wars tend to become chronological lists of commanders replaced, troops moved, fortresses taken and lost, as the same players — ­Sweden, Poland, the Ottomans, later Prussia, France, Britain — jostle for prominence on the great chessboard of Europe and later the world. Discussions of interior policy at times resemble a relentless parade of back-stabbing courtiers rewarded, dismissed, executed, pardoned, with complex plots and alliances made doubly obscure by complicated family connections, until one can sympathize with the loutish Alexander III, who was prone to shouting, “As for the ministers, the Devil take them.” Montefiore’s novelistic gift of drawing vivid characters with a few choice words never fails him — a greedy favorite is likened to the “shark that can clean its gills only by eating more,” while an official is described as “snoozing astride foreign policy like a somnolent, sickly sloth”; but, given the encyclopedic nature of the work, minor personalities come and go abruptly, and their individual time on the stage is simply too brief to make them ­distinguishable.

The main portraits, on the other hand, are invariably memorable. Here is the red-bearded giant Alexei habitually tossing trussed-up boyars into a freezing river as punishment for their oversleeping his dawn church services; or Peter the Great having a beautiful ex-lover beheaded, then lifting her bloodied head, kissing it on the lips and lecturing the crowd on the windpipe and arteries; or the “Russian Venus” Elizaveta banning her ladies from wearing her favorite color, pink, then punishing a beauty who dared to wear a pink rose in her hair by having her tongue ripped out at a scaffold; or Catherine the Great, in the midst of a predawn revolution that would make her the ruler of Russia, commandeering a French hairdresser to fix her hair (“always important in a coup,” notes the author with a rare flash of humor). The rulers’ characters are further enriched by generous quotations from primary sources, including their own letters and diaries. (Peter is forceful and blunt: “Time is death.” Catherine is cautious and manipulative: “One must do things in such a way that people think they themselves want it to be done this way.”)

When the story moves into the 19th century, the age of the three Alexanders and the two Nicholases, the narrative slows down somewhat, taken over by military maneuvers and royal love affairs; yet there is always plenty of interest to keep one’s attention, until, at the turn of the 20th century, the drama intensifies once again as the story reaches the dark sweep of its spellbinding last chapters.

Given the profusion of scandalous events and characters like Nicholas II and Rasputin who have passed from history into myth, it can be a challenge to keep the tone objective, and here Montefiore succeeds with seeming ease, offering a scholar’s well-balanced perspective on some of the more notorious episodes. He dispels the myth of Catherine the Great as the “nymphomaniac of legend,” downplays the possibility that Alexander I faked his own death and casually drops a number of bombshells that remain, appropriately, unexploded; for instance, Catherine, wife of Peter III, claimed that their heir, the future Paul I, born in 1754, was in actuality her lover’s son, prompting a single ­matter-of-fact comment: “which would make the entire dynasty down to 1917 Saltykov, not Romanov.” The account remains even-keeled throughout, and the last years of the dynasty especially are treated with a restraint and objectivity for which one is grateful.
