J.J. Abrams Admits: 'It's Not Cloverfield 2' But It Does Have a Monster

by Alex Billington February 26, 2016Source: Fandango

Finally, the truth comes out. No, 10 Cloverfield Lane is not a Cloverfield sequel. In fact, it has nothing to do with Cloverfield (the original 2008 monster movie), producer J.J. Abrams finally admits: "This movie is very purposefully not called Cloverfield 2, because it's not Cloverfield 2." However, what he's getting at here is the "bigger picture" concept behind why Cloverfield is in the title and what they're going for: "there is a bigger idea at play for us with these movies and this connection." Essentially, movies made by Bad Robot that end up with "Cloverfield" in the title or synopsis are part of a series of "monster movies" that deal with a big sci-fi threat - not specifically the same monster. Abrams finally cleared the air about what to expect.

Ever since the first trailer for 10 Cloverfield Lane premiered in theaters, fans have been going crazy with excitement at the possibility that they made a Cloverfield sequel in secret and it's out in two months and no one knew. But of course, that was a bit too perfect to be true. The reality is that the project was produced under the name Valencia and they did, at some point in production, change the title with the idea that it would connect into a bigger series of thrilling sci-fi movies that deal with a "monster" of some kind. Abrams says this movie "is definitely about different kinds of monsters," but obviously wouldn't say more than that.

Erik Davis of Fandango talked with J.J. Abrams recently and got a few key quotes from him (seen below) regarding what exactly 10 Cloverfield Lane is. Obviously not much is fully revealed but it is worth reading.

"This movie is very purposefully not called Cloverfield 2, because it's not Cloverfield 2," Abrams says, adding that "the association is clear and there are multiple connections – and there is a bigger idea at play for us with these movies and this connection."

So does 10 Cloverfield Lane take place during the first Cloverfield?

"No it doesn't, but there's a larger thing at play with these connections," Abrams continues. "And the fun of it is that some of these connections – and there's a lot of them – are not the kind of connections you might think. So if you're approaching it as a literal sequel, you'll be surprised to see what this movie is. But while it's not what you might expect from a movie that has the name 'Cloverfield' in it, I think you'll find that you'll understand the connection when you see the whole thing."

So that means - go see it and you'll know what he means and everything will be revealed, of course. Arrives in theaters starting on March 11th next month. Abrams adds a bit more about how it all came together:

"The story of this movie – and it came to us originally as a spec that was very different in a lot of ways and an unrelated thing altogether – is definitely about different kinds of monsters," he says. "And while the Cloverfield monster isn't in this movie, there's a new monster and there's something else that happens… but I don't want to ruin the ending."

Yes - so once again, go see the movie and everything will be revealed, but be on the lookout for hidden connections. I'm glad Abrams is coming out with this - see the full interview on Fandango. In a separate interview with EW, Abrams adds: "This is just this movie, and it's only two films that we're talking about right now. There is something else that we'd like to do, and hopefully we'll get a shot." SlashFilm speculates this could be another small script called God Particle. And for those wondering, "the decision to connect it to Cloverfield happened a long time ago, but it was a very conscious decision not to announce it as such," Abrams claims. I'm very curious to find out. Will all our questions be answered in March? Only J.J. knows.

For those still wondering about the possibility of a Cloverfield sequel, it's not entirely off the table. Abrams: "there were a lot of ideas [for a follow-up] – at one point there was this really big idea for doing three different things at once. A lot of things were thrown around. But we now live in that post-Godzilla, post-Pacific Rim era where those movies have been made, so what would we do?" But here is still some hope: "I was actually talking to Drew [Goddard] last week about what would happen if we continued that specific story [as told in the first Cloverfield], and there are some fun ideas, but still not 'the thing.' There's a reason why the movie we're talking about right now isn't Cloverfield 2, but something else entirely." I guess he means to say - they still haven't figured out an innovative idea for Cloverfield 2, but this movie is something interesting on its own, and is worth checking out anyway. Sounds good - only a few weeks to go.

For those interested in more of this world - the viral marketing ARG underway for 10 Cloverfield Lane has exciting things going on. SlashFilm has been covering it closely, reporting on games and other activities all based around a website at FunandPrettyThings.com. The character John Goodman plays, Howard Stambler, is running the site to keep in touch with his daughter - he posts updates here. There are hidden/subliminal images in the latest footage, which is very cool, connecting everything together which lead one Reddit user to dig up a box buried at some coordinates, containing a few things including a USB drive with mysterious files on it. Now that we've got you hooked, visit funandprettythings.com and figure out what all this means.

Find more posts in Discuss, Hype, Movie News, SciFi

Discover more on ZergNet:


