IM Global, a subsidiary of Indian conglomerate Reliance ADA, has just made three big executive hires as it expands its ranks in the Los Angeles offices. Joining the company are Wifreddy Chiang who comes in as VP, operations and finance, Louise Heseltine joining as Director, international marketing and publicity, and Mike Pastrano as Manager of business and legal affairs. The announcement was made this AM by the company’s COO Chris Bosco.



In addition, Amanda Archibald has been promoted to VP, international marketing and publicity, and London-based creative executive Callum Grant has been promoted to director, international sales and acquisitions.

IM Global co-financed the Gary Ross-directed Free State of Jones with STX which stars Matthew McConaughey as well as the Mel Gibson-directed Hacksaw Ridge which it co-financed with Cross Creek Pictures. That one stars Andrew Garfield, Vince Vaughn and Sam Worthington and is getting a wide release through Summit.



In terms of structure, Chiang will be report to CFO Miguel Palos and Bosco; Heseltine and Archibald will report to worldwide marketing and publicity chief Bonnie Voland; and Pastrano will report to the company’s general counsel Deborah Zipser.

Chiang was previously VP at Qualia Legacy Advisors, where he advised U.S., China and Latin America-based media companies on M&A, fund structuring and capital raising transactions. At Qualia, he evaluated and structured over $450 million in film financing deals including: production facilities, slate deals, P&A funds, and tax credit funds.  Prior to Qualia he was a Director of corporate finance at Lantica Media, where he raised capital to develop the Pinewood Dominican Republic Studios as well as a $26 Million production loan facility with Comerica Bank. Chiang began his career at Banco Popular.

Heseltine comes to IM Global from premiere independent PR company Maxine Leonard PR (MLPR), where she was director of publicity.  Heseltine worked with numerous international sales and production companies, including Exclusive Media, Miramax, White Horse Pictures, and Square One entertainment. She also has experience with the Asian market, having led campaigns for Chinese/U.S. production company Mili Pictures and Japanese/U.S. production company Anew.  Prior to MLPR, Heseltine was a marketing and publicity executive at the American Film Institute, where she worked on AFI Fest, AFI Life Achievement Award, and AFI Docs.

Pastrano comes to IM Global from Lionsgate where as an attorney he worked in the international business and legal affairs department, focusing on international motion picture distribution deals across all-rights.  Prior to Lionsgate Pastrano worked at the Screen Actors Guild.

Prior to IM Global, Archibald worked at Exclusive Media, and before Exclusive, she worked at Myriad Pictures and at the trailer house Skip Film, where she managed the production of several dozen studio marketing campaigns.

Grant, who is supervised by SVP, European sales and acquisitions, Emil Elmér and International sales and distribution President Michael Rothstein, is handling sales for several Western European and Asian territories, and is sourcing U.K. projects. He is headquartered in the company’s London office. Grant previously worked in post-production and helped coordinate the BBC’s longstanding political debate show Question Time.

 
