


        				By 
        				Tambay A. Obenson
        				|
        				Shadow and Act
Mon Mar 21 16:38:31 EDT 2016





00000153-9ade-d265-a353-dffefbd60000

The National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) is introducing the new Multicultural TV & Video Conference, taking place Wednesday, April 20 in Las Vegas during the 2016 NAB Show, the world's largest annual conference and expo for professionals who create, manage and distribute content across all platforms. The conference will focus on how media companies can best capitalize on the diverse audiences inherent to television and other video content viewing, particularly related to talent, content development, brand advertising and publicity.

“As our society becomes increasingly multicultural, it creates unique challenges and opportunities for television and video content providers striving to reach diverse audiences in meaningful ways,” said NAB Executive Vice President of Communications Dennis Wharton. “We are pleased to present a new conference at NAB Show dedicated to this important issue.”

Conference sessions will address topics such as cultivating a diverse talent pool, why diverse voices matter, evaluating diverse audience segments by utilizing research, data and measurement techniques, addressing the so-called “three cultures of content” that attract diverse viewers on multiple video platforms (culturally-specific content, like in-language programming; culturally-inclusive content, which attracts a broad audience but features characters and story lines about a particular culture; and cross-cultural content, which is programming initially intended for one culture, but with some adaptation, can appeal to a broader audience).

Other session topics include driving revenue and advertising and the effect of multicultural television and video on the 2016 election. The full conference schedule will be updated as speakers are confirmed.

The NAB Show Multicultural TV and Video Conference is produced by Schramm Marketing Group, a New York-based event production company and multicultural marketing firm that specializes in the promotion of sports and entertainment for leading brands. Google is a platinum sponsor of the conference and Olympusat is a silver sponsor.


