

        				By 
        				Zack Sharf
        				|
        				Indiewire
Thu Mar 24 17:46:29 EDT 2016



	        	The Duplass Brothers, Jimmy Kimmel, Albert Brooks and more are remembering the late Garry Shandling on Twitter.

00000153-aa53-d604-abd3-bf5ff4bc0000

READ MORE: Garry Shandling, Who Changed TV Comedy With 'The Larry Sanders Show,' Passes Away at 66

News broke earlier today that Garry Shandling, the legendary comic and creator of television comedies like "The Larry Sanders Show" and "It's Garry Shandling's Show," has passed away, and Hollywood celebrities have been remembering the late actor with tributes on Twitter. From fellow comedians like Albert Brooks to indie filmmakers like the Duplass Brothers, it appears Shandling's comic talents touch nearly every corner of Hollywood

Over the course of his career, Shandling received 19 Emmy nominations, winning in 1998 for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series. He also directed several episodes of "Larry Sanders" and wrote and starred in the film "What Planet Are You From?" His legacy will live on forever thanks to his work and the memories he's created for millions of comedy lovers. Check out some of the reflections hitting social media below.

Garry was/ will always be my teacher. He redesigned the wheel of comedy and was the kindest and funniest of geniuses Will miss him so much.



Lost a friend and a mentor. One of the funniest. pic.twitter.com/aiTOrvzqp1



I am not going to sleep tonight. Just thinking about Garry. https://t.co/3rlCwQ7vX8



35 goddamned days ago. I don't get it. pic.twitter.com/Et1LTETowT



This Garry Shandling news is devastating.



I am shocked that Gary Shandling has passed. I was so thrilled to have worked with him on The Larry Sanders Show. So funny & witty. RIP.



Not Garry Shandling!!!!!! A treasure!!!!!! How sad.



Garry Shandling was as kind and generous as he was funny and that is saying a lot.



Sadly whistling the theme to "It's Garry Shandling's Show"



RIP the great Garry Shandling. Surely, one of the most influential comedians of a generation.



R.I.P. Garry Shandling. I am so saddened to hear this. Brilliantly funny and such a great guy. He will be so missed.



Garry Shandling you were and always will be comedy gold. #gonewaytoosoon #rip #alwaysfunny



RIP Garry Shandling. Amazing comedian, such a loss.



Saddened over Garry Shandling. He was a comedy idol of mine. He leaves behind the greatest single-camera comedy of all time. #LarrySanders



Garry Shandling, you came to an early promotional screening of CYRUS and hung w/me & @jayduplass afterwards at PF Changs. Thank you.



R.I.P. Garry Shandling. I’m so shocked and saddened. He was brilliantly funny, and so kind to me.



Absolutely can't process the loss of Garry Shandling. Such a genius, such a wonderful man, such an inspiration. I was so honored to know him



OMG not @GarryShandling, I'm heartbroken and will always remember our laughs we shared on the set of #XFiles #RIP



The great Garry Shandling's work is such a touchstone for me that I was actually discussing him moments before I heard the sad news. RIP



Sunday, my longtime friend Garry Shandling was here, making every1 laugh. I loved him. I'll miss our talks the most. pic.twitter.com/Ud8AQXNBXN



Gary Shandling was a comedy hero of mine. He once sent me a thank you note that read, "Thanks for nothing." RIP https://t.co/DmCy2JZcGj



What a legend. RIP @GarryShandling #TheLarrySandersShow



He was as deep as he was funny. I wanted Garry Shandling to live forever and I somehow thought he would.



Rest in Peace, Garry Shandling. His work, including the Larry Sanders Show, was an enormous influence.



It rarely gathers dust anyway, but the Larry Sanders box set will be coming out tonight. RIP Garry Shandling, an all-time comedy great.



RIP @GarryShandling. Always a great guy to be around. Gone too soon. Condolences to friends/family/loved ones.



.@GarryShandling & @JuddApatow treated @MarkDuplass & me to PFChang's after a Cyrus screening and made us feel like a million bucks



The King family is shocked & saddened by Garry Shandling's passing. Brilliant, funny & genuinely kind. A very rare combination.



#GarryShandling was my comedy idol. Will miss his friendship & his impeccable timing.



Thinking of everyone close to @GarryShandling today. Thank you for making us laugh & feel less alone with your honesty. You will be missed❤️



Garry Shandling was a very special comedian with a beautifully unpredictable mind. He even voluntarily offered jokes and ideas for Oscars.



Sad today. My friend @GarryShandling passed. He encouraged me from the very start. A few weeks ago he told me life was short and enjoy it.


