
            The Wachowski filmmaker will join Caitlyn Jenner, Patricia Arquette, Queen Latifah, Jill Soloway and Ruby Rose at Saturday's event.
        

The 27th annual GLAAD Media Awards are scheduled to host a special guest on April 2 at the Beverly Hilton — Lilly Wachowski.

The organization, through publicity company BWR Public Relations, sent out a tip sheet for Saturday's event and the 48-year-old filmmaker's name appears on a long list of confirmed celebrity attendees.

The showing would mark her first public appearance since coming out as transgender on March 8 in an honest and heartfelt statement to Chicago's Windy City Times.

Lilly Wachowski is the sister of Lana Wachowski who came out as transgender in 2012. The appearance at the GLAAD Media Awards is significant because the event, according to the organization, honors media "for their fair, accurate and inclusive representations of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community and the issues that affect their lives. They also fund GLAAD's work to amplify stories from the LGBT community that build support for equality and acceptance."

Lilly revealed that she was pushed to come out as transgender after being pressured by various media outlets for her story, eventually receiving a knock at her door at home by a reporter from the Daily Mail who was prepping to run with the story. Lilly referenced GLAAD's work in her statement: "GLAAD and other LGBT organizations strongly condemn the outing of a transgender person before they are ready to tell their own story," she wrote.

It's unclear if Lilly will receive any award or special recognition at the event, as the press release simply lists her name alongside the likes of Caitlyn Jenner, Patricia Arquette, Queen Latifah, Troye Sivan, Jill Soloway, Judith Light, Lea Michele, Keke Palmer, Zendaya, Jazz Jennings, Brad Goreski, and many more.

Nick Jonas will be on hand to present the Vanguard Award to Demi Lovato while Ruby Rose has been singled out for the Stephen F. Kolzak Award. The GLAAD Media Awards will be hosted by Ross Matthews. 








	 
