At its first upfront since rebranding itself as Freeform, the Disney network is announcing a development slate of drama, comedy projects and docuseries, which includes a spinoff from the network’s comedy series Young & Hungry starring Ashley Tisdale. She will reprise the character she introduced in a couple of episodes of the original series, which she executive produces.



Freeform is the latest network to enter the late-night fray. The network will do it with Alice, a half-hour weekly variety-style platform showcasing experimental short-form content. Additionally, Freeform is developing Later Bitches (the network may want to consider an alternative title), a late-night talk show from longtime Daily Show producers Jennifer Flanz and Elise Terrell.

The network also announced summer premiere dates, including for flagship drama Pretty Little Liars. (You can find them under the development slate)

Other projects on Freeform’s development slate include adaptation of the British series Misfits from Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage, originally written by Schwartz as a spec a few years ago, drama Nine Years Under, produced by Will Packer, and comedies Alone Together, from The Lonely Island’s Andy Samberg, Jorma Taccone and Akiva Schaffer; and Paige One, produced by Elizabeth Banks. 

Here are Freeform’s slate of Development Projects, some of which have been previously announced: 

Late Night

Later Bitches

“Later Bitches,” a fresh take on after-hours talk, is a half-hour, comedic talk show, hosted by a group of smart, alluring and dynamic ladies having fun on their own terms and redefining late night in the process. It’s everything traditionally great about late night doused in sugar, spice, and everything nice (and not so nice). It’s the latest in pop culture, unique celebrity interviews, whatever’s going viral, lifestyle takeaway, adrenaline-fueled debates and tell-all conversations usually reserved ONLY for therapy – while sipping champagne cocktails, of course. It’s late-night talk meets “Sex and the City” – and it’s about time. Longtime producers Jennifer Flanz (“The Daily Show”) and Elise Terrell (“The Daily Show”) will consult. “Later Bitches” will be produced by Omelette Bar Productions and True Entertainment.

Docuseries

Freeform Presents: Snapshot

What ESPN’s “30 for 30” did to illuminate the world of sports, we’re doing through the lens of pop culture and iconic cultural happenings. “Freeform Presents: Snapshot” takes a closer look inside the most pivotal moments of the last 20 years, while exploring how those events have been shaped by a continually more connected population.

Drama

The Deep 

In the mermaid-obsessed sea town of Bristol Cove, everyone’s lives will change when actual mermaids come ashore, causing sides to be taken, loyalties to be tested and a war between man and mermaid to begin. Executive producers include Eric Wald, Dean White, Brad Luff, RD Robb and Nate Hopper.

Hunted

From executive producer Mila Kunis, “Hunted” centers on Valerie who escapes prison to prove she did not murder her husband. While the police hunt for her and attempt to prove her family helped her escape, Valerie fights to exonerate herself – but is she really innocent? Along with Kunis, Ed Bernero and Hugh Sterbakov executive-produce.

Lore

A sci-fi drama from executive producer McG, “Lore” tells the story of the lone survivor of an ancient race of paranormal beings who is abducted and forced to put his extraordinary abilities to work for the government. When an old nemesis resurfaces, this arrangement turns into an uneasy alliance, and the only hope for survival in a dangerous world of mystery and magic. The series is written by Zack Stentz (“Thor”) and executive-produced by McG, Mary Viola, Zach Stentz, David Ellison, Dana Goldberg and Marcy Ross.

Misfits

A drama based on a hit British series, a group of twenty-somethings are exposed to a mysterious chemical, and subsequently develop peculiar superpowers. The series is from ABC Signature Studios and executive-produced by Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage.

New People

Executive-produced by Joel Silver and writer/director Don Roos, in association with Lionsgate, this dramedy focuses on a middle class family who adopted identical twin boys at birth. One is all boy, one grew up trans. The series is inspired by the book “Becoming Nicole: The Transformation of an American Family.”

Nine Years Under

From executive producer Will Packer, “Nine Years Under” tells the story of a law school grad who blows off the bar exam to take a job at a funeral home after the sudden death of her mother. Along with Packer, Korin Huggins executive-produces.

Rising

Executive-produced by Selena Gomez, Mandy Teefey and Aaron Kaplan, this drama is set in a low-income Latino neighborhood, and is told through the eyes of an 18-year-old girl destined for greatness. Ana Cobarrubias will be a consultant on the project.

Comedy

Alone Together

From The Lonely Island’s Andy Samberg, Jorma Taccone and Akiva Schaffer, two misfits from different backgrounds try to make their way into the vain and status-obsessed culture of Los Angeles. Along the way, they find salvation in their male/female, strictly platonic friendship.

Made in LA

From executive producers Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage, along with Mila Kunis, “Made in LA” is a half-hour comedy set in the world of fashion, centering on two friends who join their different skill sets to become fashion entrepreneurs. The series is loosely inspired by the creators of fashion label Juicy Couture and the authors of “The Glitter Plan.” The series is from ABC Signature Studios. 

Paige One

Elizabeth Banks executive-produces this single-camera comedy that follows the insulated life of a children’s book author who hates children. Her life is turned upside down when her brother shows up on her door with his two young daughters. The show comes from Warner Horizon TV, and executive producers Banks, Max Handelman and Susan Jaffee.

Young & Hungry Spinoff

A spinoff of the network’s popular sitcom “Young & Hungry” executive produced by and starring Ashley Tisdale as lesbian magazine editor Logan Rawlings.

Short-Form Development Projects

Just Josh

This docuseries follows professional dancer Josh Horner as he gives unconventional crash courses in dancing for special events.

My Boyfriend is a Robot 

A romantic fish-out-of-water comedy centering on the relationship between a girl and her boyfriend – who happens to be a robot. The project is from executive producers Deb Spera and Maria Grasso.

Open Roads

Focusing on nonprofit organization Open Roads, which provides filmmaking wilderness camps for high school students, this docuseries follows campers’ experiences in the wild, making documentaries, and creating new relationships. Viewers will also get to see completed documentaries from the Open Roads campers.

Untitled Punam Patel Project 

Comedienne Punam Patel hosts this unconventional interview-based show. Each episode finds Punam tucking in a celebrity/person of influence into bed, using children’s stories as a launching pad for fun and personal conversation topics.

Rio Squad (working title)

In a collaboration with ESPNW, “Rio Squad” (working title) highlights four uniquely powerful female athletes who have dedicated their lives to being the best at their sport. It follows these women as they pursue their dreams, prepare for the Summer Games, and demonstrate that a female hero doesn’t have to take the shape of a princess.

School of Doodle 

A series of short videos acquired from School of Doodle, an organization that creates inspiring content for girls and women. This series will celebrate the arts and provide the audience the tools to turn creative potential into success.

Summer Premieres

Young & Hungry

“Young & Hungry” returns with more episodes, and more ups and downs in Gabi and Josh’s relationship! This season, Gabi, reeling from her discovery of Josh with his therapist, meets a brokenhearted stranger (guest star Tyler Ritter) and they decide to commiserate together. Elliot and his husband Alan make a major life change, and Yolanda celebrates a big milestone. “Young & Hungry” stars Emily Osment, Jonathan Sadowski, Rex Lee, Aimee Carrero and Kym Whitley. Premieres Wednesday, June 1 at 8:00 p.m. EDT.

Baby Daddy

“Baby Daddy” picks up right where it left off in the spring finale, with Ben finally deciding to be with Zoey (guest star Jonna Walsh), just as her son’s father reappears in her life. Riley is heartbroken after learning Danny hooked up with Sam (guest star Daniella Monet) in high school, and decides to put him on “trial” for his misdeeds with Bonnie acting as his lawyer. Tucker tries to further his career as an entertainment reporter, and Bonnie reunites with a relative she’d rather forget. “Baby Daddy” stars Jean-Luc Bilodeau, Derek Theler, Tahj Mowry, Melissa Peterman and Chelsea Kane. Guest stars this season include Jamie-Lynn Sigler, Loni Anderson, Eddie Cibrian and Jackée Harry. Premieres Wednesday, June 1 at 8:30 p.m. EDT.

Guilt

The definition of guilt is being responsible for wrongdoing or a crime. In the murder of Molly Ryan, many are guilty in different ways, but only one is truly guilty of her murder. When Natalie’s sister Grace becomes the prime suspect in her roommate Molly’s murder and popular target for the press and in social media, Natalie leaves her life in Boston and heads to London to defend her. With the help of an ethically questionable ex-pat lawyer Stan Gutterie, Natalie starts to question how innocent her sister may really be as more ugly truths start to emerge. In this one-hour soapy drama, the mystery will twist through all layers of London society – from a posh but depraved sex club and all the way up to the Royal Family itself. “Guilt” stars Billy Zane, Emily Tremaine, Daisy Head, Cristian Solimeno, Naomi Ryan, Kevin Ryan, Zachary Fall, Simona Brown and Sam Cassidy. “Guilt” comes from Lionsgate TV and Thunderbird Films. The series is executive-produced by Kathryn Price, Nichole Millard, Todd Slavkin, Darren Swimmer, Larry Shaw and Stephen McPherson. Premieres Monday, June 13 at 9:00 p.m. EDT. 

The Fosters

The new season picks up immediately from the dramatic cliffhanger finale with Mariana’s emotionally devastated boyfriend Nick bringing a gun to school. Now that Callie’s moms know she slept with Brandon, Callie worries they may not want her to remain part of the family. “The Fosters” stars Teri Polo, Sherri Saum, Hayden Byerly, Noah Centineo, David Lambert, Maia Mitchell, Danny Nucci and Cierra Ramirez. Premieres Monday, June 20 at 8:00 p.m. EDT.

Pretty Little Liars 

In the seventh season of the hit drama series “Pretty Little Liars,” the PLLs band together to unearth answers to the last remaining secrets and take down “Uber A” for good in the most romantic season of PLL yet. “Pretty Little Liars” stars Troian Bellisario, Ashley Benson, Tyler Blackburn, Lucy Hale, Laura Leighton, Shay Mitchell, Andrea Parker and Shay Mitchell. Premieres Tuesday, June 21 at 8:00 p.m. EDT.

 Dead of Summer

Set in the late 1980s, school is out for the summer and a sun-drenched season of firsts beckons the counselors at Camp Stillwater, a seemingly idyllic Midwestern summer camp, including first loves, first kisses — and first kills. Stillwater’s dark, ancient mythology awakens, and what was supposed to be a summer of fun soon turns into one of unforgettable scares and evil at every turn. From ABC Signature Studios and executive producers Adam Horowitz, Edward Kitsis, Ian Goldberg and Steve Pearlman, the series stars Elizabeth Mitchell, Elizabeth Lail, Zelda Williams, Mark Indelicato, Alberto Frezza, Eli Goree, Ronen Rubinstein, Amber Coney and Paulina Singer. Premieres Tuesday, June 28 at 9:00 p.m. EDT. 

Cheer Squad

The Great White Sharks are a sisterhood, there for each other through first loves, new jobs, bad breakups, and everything in between. But they are also elite athletes, idolized by thousands and members of the best all-star cheerleading team in the world. “Cheer Squad” will follow the two-time World Cheerleading Champions on the long road to defending their title as they try to balance life off the mat with the all-consuming battle to stay on top. Premieres Monday, August 22 at 10:00 p.m. EDT and airs nightly as a two-week programming event.

 

Programming Coming in Early 2017

Beyond

“Beyond” is a one-hour drama about Holden, a young man who wakes up from a coma after 12 years and discovers new abilities that propel him into the middle of a dangerous conspiracy. Now Holden must try and figure out what happened to him during those 12 years; how to survive a world that changed while he was gone; and answer the question, why did this happen to him? The series stars Burkely Duffield, Romy Rosemont, Michael McGrady, Jonathan Whitesell, Dilan Gwyn, and Jeff Pierre. From Imperative Entertainment and Automatik, “Beyond” is created, written a executive produced by Adam Nussdorf. Tim Kring, David Eick, Steven Adelson, Zak Kadison, Justin Levy and Brian Kavanaugh-Jones will serve as executive producers.

The Letter

“The Letter” is a bold, new relationship show that asks the simple question: If you could, without identifying yourself, would you tell your best friend what he or she really needed to hear? In each stand-alone episode, four people close to one another draw names and anonymously write to the selected person a thoughtful, yet totally honest letter outlining their opinion of what needs to be changed in order to improve and transform the life of the recipient for the better. For one week, each “reader” must follow ALL the rules and instructions outlined in the letter – culminating in a dramatic and emotionally charged meeting where the authors of each letter reveal themselves to their best friends.

Shadowhunters

Season two of “Shadowhunters” will pick up where the dramatic season one finale left off, with Jace standing alongside Valentine and his friends fearing the worst. Clary, Alec and Isabelle will stop at nothing to bring their brother back, along with help from Luke, Magnus, Simon and a now awake Jocelyn. Season two will bring fans more demon fighting, more werewolves and vampires, and a lot more Malec. The series stars Katherine McNamara, Dominic Sherwood, Matthew Daddario, Emeraude Toubia, Alberto Rosende, Isaiah Mustafa and Harry Shum Jr.

Switched at Birth

The Peabody Award-winning drama series begins its fifth and final season – including the milestone 100th episode – in 2017. The upcoming season picks up from the cliffhanger finale with Daphne and Bay living in China. A mysterious call has them packing for home, where they try to settle back in, but ten months has brought some changes. Daphne finds herself in the midst of racial tensions at the university and witnesses the racism faced by her black friends Iris, Sharee, and new baseball star Chris, in an episode told solely from their perspectives. The 100th episode sees the return of Angelo Sorrento (guest star Gilles Marini) as a vision brought about by a young woman with an unexpected link to the Kennish/Vasquez families. The series is executive-produced by Lizzy Weiss, Paul Stupin and Linda Gase. The series stars Katie Leclerc, Vanessa Marano, Constance Marie, D.W. Moffett, Lea Thompson, Lucas Grabeel, with guest stars Sean Berdy and Marlee Matlin.
