A Tyler Perry sizzle reeled just played followed by the multi-hyphenate stepping on stage. He regaled the crowd how the idea was cracked for his Oct. 21 screening, Boo! A Madea Halloween. “In Chris Rock’s movie Top Five, he jokes about a Madea Halloween movie selling out with a line down the block. So I got a call from Lionsgate executives who thought it was a good idea.” Perry then turned it over to Lionsgate’s motion picture co-chairs Rob Friedman and Patrick Wachsberger. Later on at the end of this session, they’re going to treat us in the room to Now You See Me 2, one of two films that played here this year at CinemaCon after Captain America: Civil War. 



“They have a lot of movies to share with you that I’m not in,” joked Perry, “That I wasn’t invited to be in”

Perry is traveling the country on tour with his show, showing the trailer at the end to great response.



Emma Roberts via video introduced her thriller Nerve co-starring Dave Franco. It’s slated for Sept. 16, just in time for the back-to-school crowd. A high school senior finds herself immersed in an online game of truth or dare, where her every move starts to become manipulated by an anonymous community of “watchers.”

Gina Rodriguez stepped out to talk about Deepwater Horizon, the Peter Berg film she’s co-starring with alongside Dylan O’Brien and Mark Wahlberg. She calls it a strong woman role. “I pray that the people on the oil rigs, that people watching this film walk away stronger from this film.” Berg and Wahlberg are about to beam in from Boston where they are shooting Patriots Day. Berg says Deepwater is akin to Lone Survivor about unsung heroes. It’s about the April 2010 offshore oil drilling rig which exploded and created one of  the worst spills in history. Pic hits Sept. 30.

Emma Stone via video just introduced the La La Land trailer and it looks mindblowing. “It’s (director) Damien Chazelle’s love letter to L.A.,” said Stone. In the trailer, she walks into a swanky nightclub, dressed in blue, to find Ryan Gosling wonderfully tickling the ivories. They don’t sing in the clip, but we see some of their dance moves.  Gosling is smoldering onscreen. We hear some of the score, which is reminiscent of a Lerner-Lowe tune. In sum, some of the best D.P. work seen in the trailers here at CinemaCon next to The Neon Demon, Passengers and The Shallows.

Talk about a Matrix reunion with Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne in John Wick 2. “I’ll kill them all,” says Reeves’ John Wick, to which Ian McShane says “Yes you will.” A lot of running, jumping and fast movements here. Reeves introduced the film.

Now, this is one of the shortest panels here at CinemaCon next to Disney’s and that’s because there’s the screening of Now You See Me 2.. David Copperfield stepped on stage to reveal that the writer of Now You See Me came to his magic show and was influenced by his “magic in the round.” The magician walked us through a teleportation trick where he  moved between his live show and a Hawaiian beach, essentially the gist for the teleporting bankrobber magicians. After Copperfield played around with a floating flower, Jon M. Chu, Jesse Eisenberg and Dave Franco introduced the movie.
