German filmmaker Sebastian Schipper made some major waves last year with "Victoria." Shot in one continuous take, it wasn't just a gimmicky movie, but an effective thriller in its own right, and marked the filmmaker as one to watch. Well, someone certainly took notice — Darren Aronofsky. And he's helping Schipper get his next movie off the ground.

Cineuropa reports that Schipper will direct "Undeniable," an adaptation of the memoir "Denial" by Jessica Stern, with Aronofsky producing through his Protozoa Pictures banner. The book tells the story of how the author and her sister were raped as teenagers, and were initially met with doubts when they reported the crime to police. Over three decades later, she asked the police to complete the file on her case, and shared her experiences about the long lasting effects of trauma. Here's the book synopsis: 

One of the world’s foremost experts on terrorism and post-traumatic stress disorder investigates her own unsolved adolescent sexual assault at the hands of a serial rapist, and, in so doing, examines the horrors of trauma and denial.

“I have been quiet, and I have listened all my life. But now, I will finally speak.”

Alone in an unlocked house in a safe neighborhood in the suburban town of Concord, MA, two obedient, good girls, Jessica Stern, 15, and her sister, 14, were raped on the night of October 1, 1973. When they reported the crime, the police were skeptical. Their father, away on business, did not return for three more days.

Following the example of her family, Stern—who lost her mother at the age of three—denied her pain and kept striving to achieve. But while her career took off, her success hinged on her symptoms. After her ordeal, she could not feel fear in normally frightening situations. Stern thought she’d disassociated from the trauma altogether, until a request took her back to that night more than 30 years earlier.

The world-class social scientist and expert on terrorism and post-traumatic stress disorder began her own investigation, with the help of a devoted police lieutenant, to find the truth about her rapist, the town of Concord, her own family, and her own mind. The result is DENIAL, a candid and deeply intimate look at a life, a trauma, and its aftermath. 

Schipper penned the first draft of the screenplay, but Abi Morgan ("Shame," "Suffragette") is going to write the final script. It sounds like a potentially powerful story, with a lead role that should likely attract some A-list attention.
