Don’t expect sparks to fly when Kelly Ripa returns to Live with Kelly and Michael in the morning, Ripa having receiving apologies from execs across Disney-ABC.



Kelly went MIA from the show last week after being informed, following Tuesday’s broadcast, her co-host of four years Michael Strahan would leave the show in September to work full time at ABC News’s Good Morning America. Among those who have said they’re sorry for how she learned of the news: Disney-ABC Television Group president Ben Sherwood, ABC News president James Goldston, ABC Stations president Rebecca Campbell (who use to run WABC where Live is produced, and current WABC GM Dave Davis.

Late Friday, Ripa emailed staff to let them know everyone had kissed and made up. “I wanted to thank you all for giving me the time to process this new information,” Ripa said in an email to Live staff.  “Your kindness, support, and love has overwhelmed me. We are a family and I look forward to seeing you all on Tuesday morning,” she added.



Kelly learned of the Strahan/GMA deal less than 30 minutes before the press reported it – though that part had not been in ABC’s playbook and had execs scrambling Tuesday, informed sources say. Kelly did not show up for Wednesday or Thursday’s broadcasts (she had been scheduled to take off Friday and today). Her absence Wednesday seemed to confirm she was blindsided by the development, though Strahan had been contributing to GMA twice a week for about two years. More media eyebrow-raising followed when Ripa failed to issue any congratulatory statement to Strahan. Tomorrow morning, she will fix that at the top of the show, an insider says.

In going MIA, Ripa stole the spotlight on Wednesday  from Strahan and his big news. Opening Live awkwardly that day with “I’ve been in the news lately,” he discussed his new gig with fill-in co-host Ana Gasteyerof  — but the SNL alum’s presence in Ripa’s chair was what made that day’s headlines.

Snatching opportunity, ABC had announced Ripa would be off the rest of the week and Dancing With the Stars co-host Erin Andrews would guest-host as a fill-in. On today’s show, Strahan was joined by Pretty Little Liars star Shay Mitchell, whose show airs on Freeform — which, like ABC, is owned by Disney.

 

 
