EXCLUSIVE: After 32 years, the documentary Los Sures will soon be seen nationwide following an acquisition by Oscilloscope Laboratories, which also plans for an ancillary release to follow. From director Diego Echeverria and named for the nickname locals gave to the area, the film is a deep dive into the Southside of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, decades before the neighborhood became synonymous with New York City gentrification. Looking at the poverty, violent crime, crumbling infrastructure, drug abuse and other social issues affecting the area at the time, it is also a celebration of the neighborhood’s vibrant Puerto Rican and Dominican communities, and a look into how the members of those communities work to move past their challenges.



Los Sures was inspired by Living Los Sures, a project of UnionDocs Center for Documentary Art made over five years by 60 artists to give an expansive look into Williamsburg history and culture. Beginning with the restoration of Los Sures, the project has since resulted in a collection of 40 short films, the interactive documentary 89 Steps, and the cinematic people’s history Shot By Shot.

“It is wonderful to see Los Sures join Oscilloscope’s catalog of incredible titles. Like us, they are literally based in the neighborhood that the film explores,” said UnionDocs’ Christopher Allen. “They understand the power of this film both as a tale of poverty in American cities and as a celebration of the community’s resilience.”



Through UnionDocs, the film opened theatrically exclusively at New York’s Metrograph theater on April 15, where it quickly earned $25,000 (and by its second week, $60,000). Oscilloscope will expand that release nationally, with showings and other distribution avenues to be announced soon.

“We couldn’t be more excited to be joining forces with UnionDocs (who have done such an incredible job to this date), to help expand Los Sures’ footprint,” said Oscilloscope’s Dan Berger. “Diego’s film is a fascinating time capsule, expertly presented, and should appeal to audiences not just in New York, but everywhere.”

Echeverria directed and produced Los Sures, which was shot by Mark Benjamin and Alicia Weber and edited by Kathryn Taverna.
