50 Shades of Grey star Dakota Johnson is joining Andrew Garfield in David Robert Mitchell’s Under The Silver Lake, a modern noir crime thriller set in Los Angeles that is written and to be directed by David Robert Mitchell. Project will be Mitchell’s follow-up to breakout out indie horror hit It Follows. Michael De Luca is producing this under his Michael De Luca Productions banner, with Chris Bender and Jake Weiner and Adele Romanski also aboard as producers. Lucy Kitada is overseeing for Michael De Luca Prods. Production is set to start in Los Angeles this summer with Insiders handling international sales. A24 has acquired domestic rights.



In addition to returning as Anastasia Steele in Fifty Shades Darker and Fifty Shades Freed– currently filming back to back- Johnson recently starred in Luca Guadagnino’s A Bigger Splash opposite Tilda Swinton, Ralph Fiennes and Matthias Schoenaerts as well as How To Be Single and Black Mass. She is also attached to Darius Marder’s The Sound of Metal opposite Schoenarts, a remake of Dario Argento’s Suspiria set to be directed by Guadagnino and Forever, Interrupted, which the actress is also a producer on.

Garfield is also much in-demand. He has two major features in the pipeline with Mel Gibson’s Hacksaw Ridge, in which e plays WWII U.S. Army Medic Desmond T. Doss, who became the first Conscientious Objector in American history to be awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. Garfield also stars Martin Scorsese’s long-in-the-works historical epic Silence, two Jesuit priests in the 17th century face violence and persecution when they travel to Japan to locate their mentor and propagate Christianity. Liam Neeson and Adam Driver co-star. He is coming off of “99 Homes,” which premiered at the Toronto Film Festival and earned him and co-star Michael Shannon strong reviews. Garfield is also set to star opposite Claire Foy in the Andy Serkis-directed Breathe, based on the true story of Robin (Garfield), a handsome, brilliant and adventurous man whose life takes a dramatic turn when polio leaves him paralyzed.



CAA, which reps Mitchell and Garfield, packaged the project and brokered the deal. Mitchell is also represented by Benderspink, and attorney David Fox; Garfield by Gordon and French in the U.K., and attorney David Weber. Johnson is repped by WME and attorney PJ Shapiro.
