
	        	The festival hit will have its New York premiere next month at BAM Cinemafest.

Oscilloscope Laboratories has picked up worldwide rights to the latest film written, produced and directed by Anna Biller, the intensely imaginative "The Love Witch." The film had its world premiere at the Rotterdam Film Festival and its U.S. premiere at
the Maryland Film Festival, and Oscilloscope plans to continue bringing the feature to other festivals prior to releasing it theatrically on 35mm.

READ MORE: Cannes 2016: Here's 11 Movies By Female Filmmakers That Should Have Been at the Festival (Girl Talk)

The film follows "Elaine, a beautiful young witch, [who]  is determined to find a man to love her. In her gothic Victorian
apartment she makes spells and potions, and then picks up men and seduces them. However
her spells work too well, and she ends up with a string of hapless victims. When she finally
meets the man of her dreams, her desperation to be loved will drive her to the brink of insanity
and murder." Billed as possessing "a visual style that pays tribute to Technicolor thrillers of the ‘60s," the film also explores the frequent themes of BIller's work, including female fantasy and seemingly unending narcissism. It stars Samantha Robinson as the so-called love witch. 

Of the acquisition, Biller commented, "I am so excited to be working with
Oscilloscope! They have a phenomenal catalogue and are true cinephiles that really 'get' the
film."

Oscilloscope's Dan Berger added (as only he can), "Holy shit, this movie is awesome. Anna has deftly and masterfully
made a film that completely defies classification. It will no doubt draw countless comparisons to
predecessors, but it is wholly unique. Her remarkable eye for detail and witty feminist
commentary make this a true pleasure to behold."

READ MORE: Film Acquisition Rundown, Week of May 9: Oscilloscope Gets Ready to 'Always Shine,' 'Burden' Blooms With Magnolia and More

"The Love Witch" will have its New York premiere at BAM Cinemafest on June 24 at 9:30PM. It is the only feature in this year's lineup to screen on 35mm.

Stay on top of the latest breaking film and TV news! Sign up for our Festivals newsletter here.
