



 In today’s edition of Sequel Bits:

Shane Black chats about The Predator and Arnold Schwarzenegger‘s potential involvement.

Andrew Stanton fields questions about Finding Dory.

Seth Rogen explains why he’ll never make Superbad 2.

Two video featurettes on Independence Day: Resurgence.

A very fun easter egg in Monsters University.

And more!

 It’s not clear if The Predator will feature the return of Arnold Schwarzenegger’s battle-hardened mercenary Dutch (last seen in the 1987 original), but director Shane Black has assured the world that if he does make an appearance, he will definitely be old Arnold Schwarzenegger:

These things all happened in 1990. But now it’s 25 years later. So in other words, if Arnold [Schwarzenegger]’s in it – which I’m not allowed to discuss [laughs] – he would be old Arnold.

So there you go. Black has answered a question that no one was asking because of course Schwarzenegger would be his modern self if he appeared in the movie. It’s a couple of decades later. Anyway, Black also explained that the title actually has some significance beyond the desire to not put a number in it:

There is a reference in the script as to why that makes sense, but I’m not really supposed to talk about it.

 

 Finding Dory director Andrew Stanton recently fielded some questions on Twitter and naturally, someone asked him about whether or not this film will definitively close the book on the series or if there are any plans at all to continue it in the future. His response is a fine example of hedging one’s bets: https://twitter.com/andrewstanton/status/732356385682259968 But how about a John Carter sequel? Seriously. John Carter is pretty terrific and Andrew Stanton should be let out of live-action director’s jail for that one. His response to this query is, well, it’s interesting: https://twitter.com/andrewstanton/status/732356578347622400 What kind of special event could he be referring to here? In any case, it’s a shame that he’s not involved because that movie deserved so much more (including a follow-up or two). Meanwhile, a new batch of Finding Dory posters have arrived and you can check them out in the gallery below.

While we’re talking about Pixar directors, a Reddit user has noticed a tiny Easter egg in Monsters University that calls back to Monsters Inc., a fun reminder that these folks think about everything.  We’ve already seen the announcement trailer for the woefully titled T2: Trainspotting, but now we know a release date. Danny Boyle’s sequel will open in the U.K. on January 27, 2017 before opening in limited release in the United States on February 3, 2017. It will then expand wide on February 10.
