Box Office: 'Angry Birds' Soars to $11M Friday on Way to No. 1 Debut



        7:47 AM PDT 5/20/2016
    
                        by
                
                            Rebecca Ford
                    

                    Rebecca Ford            



        Sony's animated film is flying ahead of holdover 'Captain America: Civil War.'
    




The Angry Birds happily soared to an estimated $11 million Friday on its way to its $38 million to $40 million domestic debut.

	That tally with give the Sony-Rovio animated film just enough height to land in the No. 1 spot for the weekend, ahead of three-week holdover Captain America: Civil War which is expected to earn around $32 million for the weekend, bringing its domestic tally to around $323 million.

Angry Birds, directed by Clay Kaytis and Fergal Reilly, features the voices of Jason Sudeikis, Josh Gad, Danny McBride and Maya Rudolph. Its Friday total includes the $800,000 it earned at 2,804 theaters in previews Thursday night.

	The $73 million film (which was financed by Rovio) earned a B+ CinemaScore. The audience was 47 percent male and 53 percent female, and more than half (54 percent) were under 25.  

	Worldwide, the film based on the popular game app that requires the player to slingshot birds at structures against enemy pigs, will have earned an estimated $150 million by Sunday. The movie flew to No. 1 in 37 international markets last weekend, and opened in nine additional markets, including China and South Korea, this weekend.

Neighbors 2: Sorority Rising, Universal's follow-up to its 2014 comedy hit, earned $8.7 million Friday for a projected domestic debut of around $24 million, enough to take the No. 3 spot.

	Going into the weekend, tracking had the film (which earned a B CinemaScore) landing a bit higher, in the low $30 million-range. The original earned a solid $49 million in its domestic debut when it hit theaters in 2014.

	The sequel, directed by Nicholas Stoller, sees the return of Seth Rogen, Rose Byrne and Zac Efron. New castmembers include Chloe Grace Moretz and Kiersey Clemons, who play the sorority girls living next door.

	The fourth and fifth spots on the domestic box office chart will come down to Warner Bros.’ new comedy detective caper Nice Guys and Disney’s holdover The Jungle Book.

	The weekend's third new release, Warner Bros.' Nice Guys helmed by Shane Black, earned an estimated $3.9 million Friday as it heads towards between $10 million and $11 million for the weekend. The film earned a B- CinemaScore.

The Nice Guys stars Ryan Gosling and Russell Crowe as a private detective and an enforcer who team up to find a missing woman.The film, set in Los Angeles, had its world premiere at the Cannes Film Festival, and is produced by Joel Silver.

The Jungle Book, now in its sixth week in theaters, should earn another $10 million to $11 million this weekend to bring its domestic tally to nearly $330 million.

May 21, 8 a.m. Updated with Friday estimates.






