Ever wonder how your favorite chefs make their food taste and look so good? Tune in this weekend as Food Network chefs reveal secrets from their own kitchen, their time working at restaurants and more. First up on Saturday, Ree Drummond is answering her fans’ most-asked questions while she makes Mexican chicken soup and white sandwich bread from scratch. Then, the co-hosts of The Kitchen are spilling the secrets restaurants use to make your food taste more delicious, while making potato chip-crusted salmon and a pickle-brined pork chop.



On Sunday morning, Nancy Fuller is celebrating her farmhouse’s 250-year anniversary with a spread including beans-and-greens bruschetta and a bacon-wrapped pork roast. And on Sunday night, Guy Fieri is challenging four more chefs in the Grocery Games Redemption Tournament, but only one can move on to the finale to compete for $20,000. After that, the Spring Bakers are taking on an outdoor theme with ballpark snack desserts and Alton Brown is hosting a special all-breakfast episode of Cutthroat Kitchen.

The Pioneer Woman: FAQ

Ree hosts a Pioneer Woman Q and A with answers that include a stunning Slow-Cooker Mexican Chicken Soup and a healthy Killer Kale Salad. More cooking problems are solved with her mom’s White Sandwich Bread, spread with Blue Cheese and Chive Butter, all while Ree gets the third degree on time, family and her four-legged friends!

Saturday 10a|9c

The Kitchen: Secrets Show

Take everyday recipes to the next level with Katie Lee’s Barbecue Potato Chip-Crusted Salmon and Jeff Mauro’s Pickle-Brined Pork Chops with Sweet and Spicy Peppers. Restaurant secrets are revealed to help make your food taste better, then it’s a showdown between Geoffrey Zakarian’s Cherries Jubilee French toast and Marcela Valladolid’s Cafe de la Olla French toast. Plus, cookbook author Candice Kumai shares some hidden healthy ingredients in desserts while making truffles with dates, and Geoffrey makes a Balsamic Boulevardier cocktail.

Saturday 11a|10c

Farmhouse Rules: Here’s to Another 250 Years!

Nancy’s farmhouse is turning 250. To toast to another 250 years, she makes a Sparkling Stone Fence Cocktail and serves Beans and Greens Bruschetta with Broiled Goat Cheese, Bacon-Wrapped Pork Roast with Potatoes and Onions, Warm Kohlrabi Salad, and Orange Ombre Birthday Cake with Chocolate Frosting.

Sunday 12|11c

Guy’s Grocery Games: Redemption Tournament — Part 3

Four chefs return to GGG for redemption in this special tournament. First, a roll of the dice determines that chefs must make a chicken dinner featuring tofu and radishes with just a few minutes to shop. Next, chefs must create a tasty soup and sandwich on a not-so-super budget of $11. Finally, chefs have to add French onion dip and jackfruit to a classic surf-and-turf dish.

Sunday 8|7c

Spring Baking Championship: Great Outdoors

The seven remaining bakers take on outdoor activities with a Pre Heat dessert made from classic ballpark treats like popcorn and soft pretzels. For the Main Heat, it’s time for grilling as the bakers attempt to create barbecue impostor desserts.

Sunday 9|8c

Cutthroat Kitchen: The Breakfast and the Furious

In this special breakfast episode, two chefs have to make their coffee and pastry dishes at a crowded coffee shop table. Then, two chefs have to make an omelet while walking around the kitchen on balance beams. Finally, one chef has to make a cereal-and-milk dish while balancing a giant cereal bowl on his or her head.

Sunday 10|9c
