This weekend is all about getting ready for summertime fun with easy meal-prep ideas from The Pioneer Woman, potluck recipes from Nancy Fuller and picnic ideas from the co-hosts of The Kitchen. First up on Saturday morning is Ree Drummond’s get-ahead meal kits, including a spicy veggie stir-fry and stuffed bell peppers. After that, Nancy is hosting a potluck party with her friends and cooking some catering classics like peppery Parmesan orzo and cinnamon-and-sugar hand pies. Next, The Kitchen co-hosts are making amped-up cookout favorites like spicy kielbasa dogs and revealing the best tips for setting up a picnic.

On Sunday morning, Jeff Mauro and Marcela Valladolid are tackling the great cake vs. pie debate and providing recipes for the perfect pie crust and foolproof frosting. And on Sunday night, the final five Comeback Kitchen chefs will battle for a spot on Food Network Star. After that, the chef who won redemption will be revealed on the season premiere of Food Network Star. To end the night, Alton Brown’s got a special grilling episode of Cutthroat Kitchen with all-new sabotages.

The Pioneer Woman: Kit and Caboodle

Ree Drummond’s knocking out four fabulous get-ahead meal kits, portioned, prepped and ready to go! For delicious, timesaving dinners, she prepares BBQ Chicken Pizza with Spicy Slaw, a Spicy Veggie Stir-Fry, a Spinach Alfredo Pasta Bake and Stuffed Bell Peppers.

Saturday 10a|9c

Farmhouse Rules: Potluck Party

Nancy Fuller is hosting a potluck party with a few of her close friends and making a bunch of her catering classics, including Honey-Braised Leg of Lamb with Carrots and Fennel, Peppery Parmesan Orzo, and Rustic Cinnamon and Sugar Hand Pies with Raspberry-Cream Cheese Filling. She’s also invited fellow caterer and foodie Kardea Brown, who makes an Okra Soup with Shrimp.

Saturday 10:30a|9:30c

The Kitchen: Americana

It’s time to celebrate America’s favorite pastime with Jeff Mauro’s Sonoran-Style Hot Dog and Geoffrey Zakarian’s Spicy Kielbasa Dog with Stout Onions. Katie Lee makes Crab Hush Puppies, then former MLB player Sean Casey shares the best stadium food and helps Sunny Anderson with Spicy Buttermilk Fried Chicken and Waffles. Learn which tools make fruit salad prep easier and get new ways to set up a picnic like a pro.

Saturday 11a|10c

The Kitchen Sink: The Great Debate — Cake vs. Pie

Jeff Mauro and Marcela Valladolid are prepared to tackle an age-old debate: cake or pie? Lazarus Lynch joins them to get the scoop on which is everyone’s favorite. Then, learn ways to master the best of both with tips for the perfect pie crust, foolproof frosting ideas and mashups that celebrate the tastiest parts of each.

Sunday 12|11c

Comeback Kitchen: A Final Shot at Stardom

The final five Food Network Star alumni battle it out for a coveted spot in Season 12. A surprise elimination occurs after the first challenge, where the competitors must conduct a fast-paced live webstream. Then, for the final challenge, the pressure is turned up further when they must work together to put on a 20-minute live show in front of a studio audience.

Sunday 8|7c

Food Network Star: Cinematic Debut!

The finalists shoot 30-second screen tests to explain what they are all about, which are then screened at a VIP event in Los Angeles in front of a Hollywood crowd. Mentors Giada De Laurentiis and Bobby Flay surprise the finalists when an eliminated contestant from a previous season also joins the competition. Then, Valerie Bertinelli and Tyler Florence help decide who will be the first to be sent home.

Sunday 9|8c

Cutthroat Kitchen: License to Grill

In this special grilling episode, two chefs have to hold grill grates for each other as they make hamburgers. Then, two chefs are strapped together in the ultimate grilling apron as they make a grilled chicken dinner. Finally, one chef has to make a grilled dessert on top of a bouncing trampoline.

Sunday 10|9c
