Juventus keeper Gianluigi Buffon has beaten Dino Zoff's club record of 903 minutes without conceding in Serie A.

The Italian has now gone 926 minutes since being beaten in the league after a 10th successive clean sheet in Friday's 1-0 win over Sassuolo.

Buffon, 38, is now on course to set a new Serie A record for the number of minutes without conceding.

Sebastiano Rossi holds the record after going 929 minutes without being beaten while playing for AC Milan in 1994.

Here, we take a look at Buffon's career.

Debut

Robson & Jerome were number one in the UK singles chart with 'I Believe' and Newcastle United were six points clear at the top of the Premier League when a 17-year-old Buffon made his first appearance as a professional for Parma against AC Milan on 19 November 1995.

"I remember every last detail of the day itself, particularly the feelings of excitement and joy I had before kick-off that completely overrode any of the nerves or tension," Buffon said.

"On the way to the stadium I noticed that everyone on the coach was surprised to see me there and maybe a little worried that I'd be starting the match. That's why I turned to [team-mate] Alessandro Melli and said, "I hope Milan get a penalty today so I can save it."

AC Milan included Marco van Basten, Roberto Baggio and George Weah yet they could find no way past Buffon - the game ending goalless.

On top of the world

Buffon first went to the World Cup back in 1998, although he did not play as he remained second-choice option behind Gianluca Pagliuca. He then took over the starting position from 2002. 

Four years later he was a key figure as Italy were crowned world champions, when he did not concede a single goal to opponents during normal play over the course of seven matches - letting in only an own goal and a penalty from Zinedine Zidane in the final win over France.

Buffon has since appeared at both the 2010 and 2014 tournaments.

He's won what?

As well as the 2006 World Cup, Buffon is closing in on his seventh Serie A title with Juventus. He also stayed and helped the Old Lady win promotion when they were relegated in 2006 for their involvement in Italy's match-fixing scandal. He has won the Coppa Italia twice and, when he was at Parma, one Uefa Cup.

What he's not won

Buffon might be a World Cup winner but he is yet to win the Champions League. 

He saved two penalties in the 2003 Champions League final shootout against AC Milan at Old Trafford but still ended up on the losing side. 

Buffon also skippered the team as they lost 3-1 in last season's final against Barcelona in Berlin.

Did you know

Buffon hails from a sporting family. His father was a shot-putter, his mother a discus thrower, and his two sisters are volleyball players. His grandfather's cousin, Lorenzo Buffon, played in goal for AC Milan and Inter Milan

A participant at the 1996 Olympics, Buffon made his senior debut for Italy aged 19 as an emergency substitute for the injured Gianluca Pagliuca in a 1998 World Cup qualifying play-off against Russia. 

A Uefa Cup winner with Parma in 1999, he became the world's costliest keeper when he joined Juventus in a £23.3m deal two years later. 

Saved two penalties in the 2003 Champions League final shootout against AC Milan at Old Trafford but still ended up on the losing side.

Celebrated his 100th outing for Italy by keeping a clean sheet in a 0-0 draw with the Netherlands in 2009. 

What Buffon said

About a potential move to the Premier League: "I remember when I was 20 years old in 1998 I had dinner once with [Arsene] Wenger from Arsenal. Then when I was at Parma, Manchester United definitely had their eyes on me for a long time with [Sir Alex] Ferguson. Let's say that the most serious and direct approach I had was from Manchester City."

On his retirement plans: "If I can push myself up to the 2018 World Cup then I'll go on. After that I'll close the door and stop playing football."

On England goalkeeper Joe Hart: "Hart, along with [Manuel] Neuer, [Hugo] Lloris and our own [Salvatore] Sirigu, is no longer just an emerging goalkeeper, but is now established as someone who always plays well and can be a determining factor for his team. He deserves my compliments."
