


Michael Conroy/Associated Press 


Get those brackets ready because the NCAA tournament's selection show is right around the corner on Sunday, March 13. 

It will be on Selection Sunday that the field of 68 teams for college basketball's biggest event will be set. Here's everything you need to know about the NCAA Basketball Championship Selection Show:

Date: Sunday, March 13

Time (ET): 5:30 p.m. ET

TV: CBS

Live Stream: CBS Sports Live

There have already been a number of tickets punched to the big dance thanks to the automatic qualification spots that come with winning postseason conference tournament titles:



 

A few feel-good stories and upsets have already emerged. Yale clinched its first tournament bid since 1962 while Holy Cross, which hadn't won a road game during conference play this season, won four games en route to the Patriot League title. 

Holy Cross lost 19 times this season. Only two teams in the history of the NCAA tournament made the show with more losses, per ESPN Stats & Info:



A 14-19 record did not stop Holy Cross from punching a ticket to the NCAA Tournament last night. pic.twitter.com/OUZLF4hk3J

In the coming days, 19 more conference champions will be decided, thus sealing more tournament spots. By Sunday, there will be a total of 32 places determined, which will leave the selection committee the task of choosing the best 36 at-large teams to make the cut. 

Teams on the proverbial bubble looking to make a good lasting impression to the committee will have an opportunity to do so in the final days of their respective conference tournaments.

Even if they don't necessarily win, a team with a solid resume and quality wins that can make a run at a conference title will have a good shot of making the tournament.

CBS Sports' Seth Davis tried to shed some insight on what he looks for with bubble teams:



When I evaluate bubble teams I place a much greater emphasis on quality wins, esp away from home. Bad losses bother me less.

Those teams will find out whether their bubbles will burst on Sunday evening as they're toeing a fine line between the NCAA tournament and an NIT berth.
