For a list of all the completed deals, check out the transfers page.

Jose Mourinho has signed a pre-contract agreement to become Manchester United's next manager. (El Pais - in Spanish)

Mourinho will make Tottenham's 22-year-old striker Harry Kane his priority transfer target if he replaces Louis van Gaal at United. (Independent on Sunday)

Aston Villa manager Remi Garde is on the verge of being sacked after four months in charge of the Premier League's bottom club. (Sunday Mirror)

The Premier League are in negotiations to introduce up to 16 of their clubs' Under-21s teams into the Football League's Johnstone's Paint Trophy next season. (Sunday Telegraph)

Manchester United could outbid Atletico Madrid for Chelsea's 27-year-old Spain international striker Diego Costa this summer. (Fichajes.net - in Spanish)

Juventus will target Arsenal's 29-year-old French striker Olivier Giroud if they fail to sign Paris Saint-Germain forward Edinson Cavani, also 29. (Tuttosport - in Italian)

Italian side Juve are also interested in signing Liverpool's 25-year-old Belgian striker Christian Benteke. (Sun on Sunday)

Manchester United manager Louis van Gaal says the club need to change their managerial structure to include a director of football. (Sun on Sunday)

Bayern Munich boss Pep Guardiola could make the German club's midfielder Sebastian Rode, 25, his first signing when he takes charge at Manchester City. (Sunday Mirror)

Guardiola is also keen to beat rivals Manchester United and Liverpool to bring another of his Bayern Munich players to City, striker Robert Lewandowski, 27.(Sunday Express)

Tottenham are targeting Deportivo Maldonado striker Jonathan Calleri. The 22-year-old former Boca Juniors man is currently on loan at Brazilian side Sao Paulo. (Sunday People)

Napoli will try to sign Everton striker Romelu Lukaku, 22, if they sell Gonzalo Higuain. Chelsea, Manchester United and Bayern Munich are all interested in their 28-year-old Argentine forward. (TuttoMercatoWeb - in Italian)

West Ham have agreed an £8.5m deal to sign Besiktas's 24-year-old winger Gokhan Tore this summer. (Takvim - in Turkish)

Liverpool captain Jordan Henderson, 25, could be set to leave Anfield in the summer, with boss Jurgen Klopp saying nobody is "unsellable". (Mail on Sunday)

Manchester United midfielder Michael Carrick, 34, turned down "crazy money" from China to stay at Old Trafford. (Sun on Sunday)

United are keen on signing midfielder Andre Gomes from Gary Neville's Valencia, the 22-year-old has a £19.5m release clause. (Sunday Mirror)

Manchester City have joined a host of European clubs interested in 18-year-old Rennes winger Ousmane Dembele. (Mail on Sunday)

Juventus and Atletico Madrid will move for Chile forward Alexis Sanchez if Arsenal cannot agree an improved deal with the 27-year-old. (Sunday Mirror)

Best of social media

Saturday should have been a good day for Norwich midfielder Gary O'Neil after his side beat West Brom to move out of the Premier League relegation zone. But his post-match celebrations had to be curtailed...

West Ham were pegged back to 2-2 after a controversial late penalty at Chelsea on Saturday and, judging by the reaction on the club's Twitter account, they weren't quite ready to acknowledge how good a game it had been for the neutral.

Chelsea's late equaliser certainly did not meet with the approval of Hammers keeper Adrian. "Unfair to draw like today when absolutely we deserve the 3 points!" he tweeted. "Now time to relax & charge the batteries!"

The journey back from to Watford to Stoke was a happy one for Mark Hughes's side, with defender Marc Muniesa tweeting a photo of himself and goalscorer Joselu.

Carlisle goalkeeper Mark Gillespie had a busy afternoon. While he was playing in a 1-1 draw with Wycombe Wanderers, his sister was giving birth to his nephew. 

And finally

Should Arsene Wenger give Alexis Sanchez a breather? The Chile forward took matters into his own hands during Arsenal's 2-0 win over Everton at Goodison Park, leaping over the hoardings and sitting down after chasing down a loose ball. (Independent on Sunday)
