Australia sealed their first win of the 2016 World Twenty20 with a three-wicket victory over Bangladesh in Bangalore.

Spinner Adam Zampa took 3-23 but Bangladesh scored 44 in the last three overs to make 156-5 after being put in.

All-rounder Mahmudullah struck seven fours and a six in an unbeaten 49 from 29 balls and Shakib Al Hasan made 33.

In reply Usman Khawaja fired a maiden T20 fifty but Australia lost 5-37 inside five overs before edging home with nine deliveries remaining.

The Australians, winners of five 50-over World Cups, have yet to win the T20 version, with defeat by England in the 2010 final the nearest they have come to date.

After losing to New Zealand in their first group match they overcame a few decidedly anxious moments against the Tigers to revive their Group 2 campaign and are next in action against Pakistan - who have also played one and lost one thus far - in Mohali on Friday.

Who is Adam Zampa?

The blonde 23-year-old leg-spinner born in New South Wales made his debut for Australia in a one-day international against New Zealand last month and took three wickets in two matches.

After failing to get in the wickets column in his first three T20 internationals, he struck with his second delivery against Bangladesh, took another in his next over with a quicker flipper that claimed an lbw and an important third when left-hander Shakib top edged to backward point.  

Chipping in to cover Tamim

Bangladesh were dealt a major blow shortly before the start of the match when Tamim Iqbal, their cavalier left-handed opener and leading run-scorer in all three formats, was ruled out because of illness.

Tamim had struck five sixes in his maiden T20 international century against Oman in the first stage but in his absence, four separate batsmen hit sixes against the Australians, each of them reaching double figures at a strike rate in excess of 100.

The majority were all too brief cameos but Mahmudullah shared 51 from 29 balls with Mushfiqur as Bangladesh recorded their highest total in four T20 meetings with Australia.

Australia come close to capitulation

Ruthless with anything short, stylish left-hander Khawaja appeared to have done the bulk of the work for the Australians when he missed a leg glance and was bowled with 42 required from as many balls.

Glenn Maxwell then looked to have settled any doubts when he smashed three fours in the 16th over bowled by debutant left-arm spinner Saqlain Sajib, but after two mighty sixes in the following over that also saw Mitchell Marsh depart, the big-hitting all-rounder was stumped with nine still needed.

Having been dropped and seen a run out chance fumbled, John Hastings hit straight to deep mid-wicket before, to the great relief of the Australian bench, James Faulkner received a long hop from Sajib and pulled it for a winning boundary.
