


Derick E. Hingle-USA TODAY Sports 


Anthony Davis, who was shut down for the season by the New Orleans Pelicans on Sunday due to knee and shoulder injuries, said Monday he won't participate in this summer's Rio Olympics, per Jim Eichenhofer of Pelicans.com and John Reid of the Times-Picayune.

Davis, 23, also noted his shoulder injury, a torn labrum, is something he's dealt with for the past three seasons, according to Justin Verrier of ESPN.com. Verrier offered more information on why Davis hadn't had surgery on the shoulder in that time and his expected timetable going forward:



Davis said he was told he would need to correct his labrum at some point but needing the knee procedure is what's leading him to get it done

Davis estimated his recovery time for the shoulder at 4-5 months. Wouldn't say he'd be back by training camp but 100% for next season

Davis' left knee also requires surgery, per Reid, though the team didn't reveal the exact nature of that injury.

"He has an issue with his knee that we're going to get corrected," Pelicans head coach Alvin Gentry said, per the team's website. "I think for us, we have to look at things long-term, and we have to look at what's best for the future of our franchise. For that reason, he won't play anymore this season. ... It's something that needs to be done and needs time to heal."

While the 26-43 Pelicans are out of the postseason hunt, making the decision to end Davis' season an easy one, the news comes as a bigger blow to Team USA, as Davis was expected to be a major contributor on that squad.

Team USA should be loaded with NBA stars, but Davis is one of the brightest young players in the league. Davis averaged 24.3 points, 10.3 rebounds and 2.0 blocks per game this season and has become one of the most compelling and well-rounded players in the game. Few players combine his impact in the paint on both ends with elite athleticism and the ability to stretch defenses out to the three-point line.

For the Pelicans, having Davis at 100 percent for the start of next season is vital. For Team USA, however, losing him for this summer's Olympics is a disappointing development.

 

You can follow Timothy Rapp on Twitter.
