


Tom Pennington/Getty Images 


The Oregon Ducks, coming off a win over Duke, are 11-0 straight up and 7-4 against the spread over their last 11 games. The Oklahoma Sooners, coming off a convincing victory over Texas A&M, are 8-2 SU over their last 10 outings, but only 3-7 ATS. In the West Region final, top-seeded Oregon runs with second-seeded Oklahoma on Saturday evening in Anaheim, California.

 

Point spread: The Sooners opened as one-point favorites; the total was 149, according to sportsbooks monitored by Odds Shark. (Line updates and matchup report)

March Madness pick, via Odds Shark computer: 78.4-67.2 Ducks

 

Why pick Oklahoma to cover the spread

The Sooners now find themselves one victory away from their first Final Four appearance since 2002 after topping Texas A&M on Thursday 77-63. OU trailed the Aggies early, then used a 39-13 run to take a 19-point halftime lead. From there, the Sooners never let A&M get any closer than 11 points, easily covering as three-point favorites.

On the night, Oklahoma shot 49 percent from the floor and hit 11 of 25 from three-point range while holding the Aggies to just 34 percent shooting. The great Buddy Hield tossed in 17 points, but more importantly four other Sooners hit double figures, led by Jordan Woodard's 22. If the Sooners can get a similar degree of balance Saturday, they could be Final Four bound.

 

Why pick Oregon to cover the spread

Coming out of a weak Pac-12 conference, some questioned the top seed the Ducks received for this year's NCAA tournament, but here they are, playing for their first Final Four berth since 1939 after drumming Duke in a regional semifinal Thursday night 82-68. Oregon led by five at the half, then scored the first six points of the second half and never had the Blue Devils any closer than seven points after that.

For the game, the Ducks shot 49 percent from the field, made 10 of 23 attempts from beyond the arc, including an in-your-face bomb from emerging star Dillon Brooks in the waning seconds, and won the battle on the boards 42-32. Oregon has now won its last 11 games in a row, seven of those by double digits, going 7-4 ATS on the college basketball betting lines.

 

Smart betting pick

This should be a dandy with two of the most entertaining teams in the tournament knocking heads. They're also very evenly matched. The point spread on this game looks about right; this one's a total toss-up. Ultimately, the best betting choice might be to just pull up a barstool and enjoy the game for itself.

 

March Madness betting trends

Oregon is 4-1 ATS in its last five games.

Oregon is 12-3 ATS in its last 15 games in March.

Oklahoma is 1-7 ATS in its last eight games.

The total has gone under in 11 of Oklahoma's last 13 games.

 

All point spread and lines data courtesy of Odds Shark, and all quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line movement updates and get the free odds tracker app for iOS or Android.
