Aaron Rodgers believes in UFOs.

How do we know? Because he said so during an interview on a podcast called “You Made It Weird” hosted by Pete Holmes.

The interview goes for two hours and can be heard here, but the UFO portion comes early. At about the 15-minute mark, Rodgers first said he didn’t want to get into it but then elaborated.

"I saw an unidentified flying object in the sky in New Jersey in 2005," Rodgers said.

Rodgers said he was in New York to appear an episode of ESPN’s Cold Pizza show (now known as First Take) and visited a friend in New Jersey. He said it occurred in February of that year. He compared it to something in the movie “Independence Day.”

“It was a large orange, left-to-right-moving object," Rodgers said.

When asked what it looked like, Rodgers said: "Because of the overcast nature of the night and the snow, you couldn’t make out. It was kind of behind the clouds we were seeing, but it was definitively large, moving from left to right.  It was me, Steve [Rodgers' friend] and his brother that saw it. And it goes out of sight and we look at each other and go, ‘What in the f--- was that?'”

And then it vanished.

Thirty seconds later he said he heard what sounded like four fighter jets flying overhead.

"If you know anything about UFO sightings or if you've done research, you know that a lot of times two things are connected to UFO sightings: One, is the presence of fighter jets to chase them down. Two, is there's a lot of sightings around nuclear power plants. The alarm we heard was from 30 miles out. There was a nuclear power plant that had an alarm that went off.”

Rodgers said, “In typical fashion, there was no mention about it [in the media] the next day."

Rodgers said the friend he was with at the time, a former college teammate, still brings it up.

“I checked in with him a couple of years ago [and he said], 'I think about it almost every day,'" Rodgers said.

Rodgers also talked about his football career, the Hail Mary pass he threw last season to Richard Rodgers and his relationship with Bart Starr.

But it’s the UFO sighting that has gotten the most attention.
