


Geoff Burke-USA TODAY Sports 


The women's final at the Miami Open was set Thursday, when Victoria Azarenka and Svetlana Kuznetsova punched their tickets to Saturday afternoon's championship match. On Friday, the men's side of the tournament stood alone as both semifinals played out.

World No. 1 Novak Djokovic led the day off when he faced Belgian David Goffin. Their battle was followed by Kei Nishikori and Nick Kyrgios, who both played their quarterfinals Thursday and faced a quick turnaround.

Here are Friday's updated scores and schedule:



 

 

Novak Djokovic def. David Goffin

Similar to Thursday's conditions, Friday didn't present the best tennis setting, as humidity added on to a sunny day that approached 90 degrees.

Serbian journalist Sasa Ozmo was one of the spectators out in the heat:



My God, these conditions are inhuman, both Djokovic and Gofin barely breathing. #MiamiOpen

Djokovic, who struggled with the heat just like his opponent Goffin, earned his 11th straight trip to an ATP Masters 1000 final. He'll be attempting to claim his sixth title in Miami on Sunday.

It was a 7-6 (5), 6-4 win in straight sets for Djokovic, but Goffin pushed him. The first set lasted 75 minutes as it went to a tiebreak. With both players struggling to stay sharp, Djokovic was able to squeak by with a 7-5 win in the tiebreak to take the set.

Goffin had a golden opportunity to take a lead in the tiebreak, with things knotted at 4-4, but his attempted smash on a high Djokovic lob went straight to the world No. 1, as Tennis TV showed:



If #Goffin doesn't win the match he might regret losing this key point in the TB. #Djokovic https://t.co/kRsZ9udpkC https://t.co/7s7jsaqTD7

The second set was easier for Djokovic, but he not only had to contend with Goffin but also with the official after he appeared to hurt his ankle. While bent over in pain, he received a time-violation warning, as Live Tennis showed:



#Djokovic takes a bad step & a moment to recover. Gets a time violation warning & is not happy about it. pic.twitter.com/xUchtd5DYu

It didn't affect the rest of his afternoon, as he closed out the match and continued his domination, recording his 13th straight victory. With the way he's playing right now, Djokovic looks unstoppable on the court. 

The only thing that could slow him down are the conditions or some more problems with the officials. 
