HOUSTON -- Texans defensive end J.J. Watt is well aware of criticism he faces for his presence on social media.

He's accused of being fake when photos or videos of his charitable works surface. He's accused of constantly wanting attention, as he was on Tuesday after posting a Snapchat photo that indicated he was at the Texans' facility despite workouts being canceled due to severe flooding.

It does bother him. Sometimes he even fires back on Twitter. Ultimately, though, Watt said he won't let it change the way he operates.

"We have social media and people want to see access to you," Watt said. "They want to know what you're doing. Day to day, what's going on in your life. And then every single thing you do becomes a story, whether it's a tweet, whether it's an Instagram post, whether it's a Snapchat. Every single thing becomes a story.

"I think if people don't want to see what I'm doing, they should probably just stop following me. That's basically what it comes down to.

"One of the problems with all of the social media we have nowadays is it's becomes a cynical world. I think there's a lot of people out there that want to believe that somebody's being fake, that want to believe that somebody is doing things just for attention, when in reality there's a lot of people out there doing a whole lot of good things for the world."

Watt offered a plea for positivity.

"If we could just believe in the good and we can actually go out there and spend our energy on being good people and doing good things as opposed to trying to rip other people down and trying to poke flaws in other people," Watt said, "I think then we can truly make changes in the world.

"Why would I worry about what somebody says when all they do is go on the internet and try to rip other people down? That's not the type of person I want to associate myself with. I'm going to go out there. I'm going to keep trying to inspire people. I'm going to keep trying to motivate people. I'm going to do what I've been doing. I haven't changed anything I've been doing for my whole career. I've been doing all right with that so far, so I'm going to try and have more success."
