After the Philadelphia Eagles essentially dismissed him as their long-term answer at quarterback, Sam Bradford has reportedly requested a trade.

ESPN's Adam Schefter reported the news Monday, adding Bradford won't be attending any additional sessions in the team's offseason program. Ian Rapoport of NFL Network reported Bradford will be fined if he does not show up to minicamp. If the holdout continues through training camp, he will give up 25 percent of his signing bonus, noting he will lose more if he misses regular season action.

Bradford's desire to get out of Philadelphia comes as little surprise after the Eagles traded with the Cleveland Browns last week to obtain the No. 2 overall pick in the 2016 NFL draft.

However, Eagles executive vice president of football operations Howie Roseman spoke with CSN Philadelphia's John Clark after Schefter's report broke Monday, via Chris McPherson of PhiladelphiaEagles.com, expressing his support for Bradford:

"I want to reiterate our support for Sam Bradford and go back to our statements last week - that Sam is our starting quarterback," Roseman said. "His agent and Sam know how we feel about him. These workouts are voluntary. We look forward to seeing Sam again in the near future."

As a follow-up question, Roseman was asked if there was concern that Bradford will not show up for the mandatory portions of the offseason program.

"No, I think you talk about Sam and what a pro he is," Roseman said. "Him and his agent, we've worked well together for a long period of time. He loves to play the game. We look forward to seeing him soon."

The deal with Cleveland suggests Philadelphia will choose one of the two top QB prospects in Jared Goff and Carson Wentz. That also seemingly creates a situation where Bradford is a lame-duck starter of sorts—a stopgap option until the Eagles signal-caller of the future is ready to step in.

Moving up to draft a QB so high is a bit of a surprise on Philadelphia's part, considering it reaffirmed its commitment to Bradford with a lucrative two-year, $35 million contract this offseason, per Spotrac.

Further complicating matters is how the team reportedly still would like Bradford to be its starter this coming season. According to NFL Network's Ian Rapoport, Philadelphia wants Bradford as its No. 1 QB in 2016 and was "blindsided" by his trade request.

Although he showed some rust after not playing a down in 2014, Bradford played well toward the end of last season, registering a passer rating of 91.4 or better in six of his final seven starts.

CSNPhilly.com's Reuben Frank was among those who had no sympathy for Bradford:



Bradford has made over $100 million. ZERO winning seasons. ZERO playoffs. And now his feelings are hurt because he's being asked to compete?

The 28-year-old is a former No. 1 overall pick who's evidently not intent to settle on the massive amounts of money he's made to date, though. Bradford seemingly wants to prove he was worth that billing.

If he remains with the Eagles, he likely won't have more than a season or two to do so unless he plays at a truly elite level.

Bradford's injury history is concerning, particularly his twice-torn left ACL, but since he held up for 14 games in 2015 and showed promise toward the end of the year, there should be a decent trade market for him.

In addition to avoiding a potential locker room rift with its prospective new QB by dealing Bradford away, Philadelphia could regain a decent draft asset as compensation. Such a move would at least somewhat make up for the trove of picks it dealt to Cleveland, a haul that included a 2017 first-rounder and a 2018 second-round choice.
