


Tony Avelar/Associated Press 


The San Francisco 49ers will institute a rule ensuring at least one woman is interviewed for every opening on the business side of the operation, Jane McManus of espnW.com reported on Tuesday. 

A league spokesperson told McManus the 49ers are the first team to "formally announce adopting the initiative." 

Team general counsel Hannah Gordon told McManus the goal of this rule is "essentially developing, you hope...women who could be presidents of franchises."

The Rooney Rule, named after Pittsburgh Steelers chairman Dan Rooney, was originally established in 2003 to present more head coaching opportunities to minorities, as at least one minority candidate had to be interviewed for each job opening. In February, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell announced the league was instituting a Rooney Rule for women in executive positions.

The Niners’ rule builds on the NFL’s expansion of the Rooney Rule, though it won't carry over to coaching or scouting positions.

San Francisco CEO Jed York got the idea from discussions with his mother, Denise DeBartolo York, the team's principal owner. McManus explained the two "agreed that the practice would reflect the diversity of the Bay Area and would be an important statement about the principles guiding the franchise."

York spoke about the decision with the media on Tuesday, per CSN Bay Area:

As the world of sports has proven time and time again, talent comes in all forms. Therefore, it is our responsibility to provide every opportunity for talented individuals to showcase their abilities on an even playing field regardless of race or gender. This organization is very proud of our efforts to promote diversity and inclusion, and these new enhancements strengthen our commitment. We are privileged to utilize our highly visible platform as a National Football League franchise and take a leading role in promoting equal opportunities for all.

The 49ers will also tweak their Denise DeBartolo York Fellowship to give young women the opportunity in departments where they have been underrepresented, including sales, financing, strategy and analytics, and stadium operations, per CSN. 

KMIR NBC TV's Julie Buehler found new delight in rooting for her team:



Never been prouder to say GO #NINERS!!!!!! https://t.co/dLLdNVWm1o

This is certainly a step in the right direction for a league striving for gender equality, as it will continue to open doors for women in the NFL.

Not only is it a good thing for society, but it will also present more opportunities for NFL teams to find the perfect personnel to make sure all aspects of a winning team run smoothly. 
