


David Madison/Getty Images 


The San Francisco 49ers made a surprise late trade with the Kansas City Chiefs to get back into the first round of the 2016 NFL draft on Thursday, acquiring Stanford guard Joshua Garnett with the 28th overall pick.

ESPN's Field Yates reported the 49ers gave up second-, fourth- and sixth-round picks from this year's draft to grab Garnett.  

Twitter certainly had a response to the interesting move by San Francisco.

NFL Network's Ian Rapoport suggested new 49ers head coach Chip Kelly's past experiences were the reason for the draft-day maneuver:



Chip Kelly battled guard issues for years in Philly. First big move in SF? Trade for a guard. Seems he's learned.

John Middlekauff of Comcast SportsNet questioned whether Garnett would fit in Kelly's system:



Reading some of my notes on Garnett - thought he was much more of power run based guy. Not an ideal fit in a zone scheme

NFL.com's Chris Trapasso felt Garnett has room to improve as a pass protector:



28. #49ers: Josh Garnett - Majorly strong, best run blocker / pulling OG in the class. Needs to get better w/ balance in pass pro. Ok pick.

Here's the best of the rest:



Chip Kelly seemed to prioritize athleticism along his OL in Philly.That is not Joshua Garnett.

Great choice, @49ers.🤓#GoStanford pic.twitter.com/8uFRtZ7JU9

Those 49ers moves feel like prioritizing long term rather than short.

Gotta appreciate Baalke's confidence in his job security trading into 1st Rd to lock in 5th year option for Garnett

The 49ers literally traded up for a guy nobody had in the 1st, INCLUDING ME!#NFLDraft2016 pic.twitter.com/St22hUZjBB

Garnett does have experience in a pro-style offense from his days at Stanford and was a run-blocker who helped pave the way for Heisman Trophy-contending running back Christian McCaffrey.

It's interesting too that Garnett comes from a Cardinal program formerly coached by ex-Niners head coach Jim Harbaugh. Whatever the rationale was behind the pick, guard was a position of need in San Francisco and provides some improved blocking for rising star 49ers running back Carlos Hyde.

The question is whether Garnett will be good enough in the passing game to help whoever is under center for San Francisco in 2016, be it Colin Kaepernick, Blaine Gabbert or a rookie acquired later in the draft.
