PHILADELPHIA -- The Philadelphia Eagles held their first OTA practice Tuesday. It was the first time quarterbacks Sam Bradford and Carson Wentz were on the field together. Here's a look at how Bradford, Wentz and Chase Daniel did on Day 1:

Sam Bradford: UP.

All eyes were on the Eagles’ starting quarterback during his first practice since his two-week holdout ended. And Bradford seemed comfortable with the attention, throwing the ball well for the most part despite a light rain.

Wow moment: Late in practice, Bradford threw a perfect rainbow to wide receiver Jordan Matthews down the right sideline. The deep pass would have gone for a 40-yard touchdown.

Whoa moment: Bradford threw a short pass to Nelson Agholor in a tight window. Safety Rodney McLeod – Bradford’s teammate back in St. Louis – jumped the route and intercepted the pass in full stride. McLeod kept running untouched through the backfield.

Chase Daniel: UP.

It must be said that Daniel looks really short when he’s next to Sam Bradford and Carson Wentz on the field. But he does know Doug Pederson’s offense and did a decent job of running the second-team offense.

Wow Moment: Daniel found tight end Trey Burton on consecutive plays for 20-yard gains. Both throws were spot-on and led Burton so he could continue running.

Whoa Moment: Daniel badly overthrew a wide-open Josh Huff running down the right sideline.

Carson Wentz: UP.

Wentz seemed very enthusiastic, rushing to take his turn behind center. He has a coltish quality about him, but he also appears to know what he’s doing. At one point he was in the shotgun and looked back at running back Wendell Smallwood. Wentz waved his arm, moving Smallwood from the left side to the right.

Wow Moment: Wentz threw a bullet to Huff. The ball was thrown so hard it knocked Huff back a couple of steps. He held on, but Wentz's arm strength was noticeable.

Whoa Moment: Wentz threw a pass for wide receiver Jonathan Krause toward the right side of the field. Cornerback Denzel Rice was running with Krause and easily intercepted Wentz’s throw.

Who won the day? Bradford gets the nod here. All three quarterbacks had their moments, but the pressure was on Bradford more than the others. He looked like the starting quarterback, which is all he can do at this point in the offseason.
