


Ted S. Warren/Associated Press 


Seattle Seahawks wide receiver Doug Baldwin is coming off a career season and entering the final year of his contract.

Continue for updates.

Negotiations Could Be on the Horizon

Thursday, May 19

Baldwin told NFL Network's NFL Total Access (via Bob Condotta of the Seattle Times) that contract talks haven't begun yet, but they will soon.

"We’re going to be talking here shortly, at least that’s what I’ve been told," he said. "We’ll see how it goes. Of course, I’m not worried about it. I’m here working out with my teammates trying to get better for this upcoming season."

Given his performance in 2015, the Seahawks should try to lock up the 27-year-old and avoid having him become an unrestricted free agent. He recorded career and team highs with 103 targets, 78 receptions, 1,069 yards and a league-leading 14 touchdowns last year.

His efforts toward the end of the season helped propel the Seahawks to the playoffs, as he recorded 11 touchdowns in the final seven games of the season.

The NFL showed his final touchdown of a three-score day in Week 13 against the Baltimore Ravens:



Russell Wilson + Doug Baldwin = TDRussell Wilson + Doug Baldwin = TDRussell Wilson + Doug Baldwin = TD#SEAvsBAL https://t.co/anIL5Ozn2R

Those kinds of numbers would lead many football players to feel secure about getting a new deal.

 Baldwin expressed similar thoughts earlier in the week during an interview with ESPN.com's Jim Trotter on Monday: "If I continue to work hard, if I continue to strive to get better and not focus on things money oriented, it's eventually going to come."

An increase in salary is also expected, per Condotta, who reported that "conventional wisdom" is that Baldwin's earnings will rise to "at least the $8 million a year range or so." 

The receiver earned $3 million in 2014 and $4.65 million in 2015, and he's expected to make $6.325 million in 2016, according to Spotrac.

If the year progresses and he still doesn't have a deal, Baldwin told Trotter that he wouldn't be upset: "And even if it doesn't [come], I'm fine with that, too, because at the end of the day, I'm controlling what I can control."

But Condotta noted Baldwin will be "first in line to get an extension," with it "likely" being completed by training camp, so Seahawks fans shouldn't need to worry about the pass-catcher going anywhere.

 

Stats courtesy of Pro-Football-Reference.com.
